Solidity Developer Survey 2022 Announcement (#200)
ethereum/solidity-blog: _posts/2022-12-07-solidity-developer-survey-2022-announcement.md

---
layout: post
published: true
title: 'Solidity Developer Survey 2022 is Live!'
date: '2022-12-07'
author: Franziska Heintel
category: Announcements
---

> It's that time of the year again: Today, we are launching the [Solidity Developer Survey 2022](https://cryptpad.fr/form/#/2/form/view/HuPIRv4gvziSV0dPV1SJncKzYJXTVc8LGCaMfLUoj2c/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It’s that time of the year. 
Drumroll, please! 🥁🥁🥁 
We are launching the [Solidity Developer Survey 2022](https://cryptpad.fr/form/#/2/form/view/HuPIRv4gvziSV0dPV1SJncKzYJXTVc8LGCaMfLUoj2c/)!
```

Happier tone than "again"

> Before we wrap up 2022 for good, we reach out to collect your feedback and insights!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before we wrap up 2022 for good, we want to reach out to collect your feedback and insights so we can improve on it!
```

The motivation was missing.

**📝 [TAKE THE SURVEY!](https://cryptpad.fr/form/#/2/form/view/HuPIRv4gvziSV0dPV1SJncKzYJXTVc8LGCaMfLUoj2c/) 📝**

> You can find the results of last year’s Solidity Developer Survey [here](https://blog.soliditylang.org/2022/02/07/solidity-developer-survey-2021-results/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the previous results of the Solidity Developer Survey 2021 [here](https://blog.soliditylang.org/2022/02/07/solidity-developer-survey-2021-results/), where 435 people from 73 different countries participated, more than half of the respondents used Solidity for less than a year!
```

Added year explicitly for SEO.
Added hook for people to check out the previous blogpost.

## About the Survey 🪄

> Like in previous years, this survey helps us to further improve the language and compiler, and shape the future roadmap of Solidity. We are curious to hear your feedback on Solidity and learn about your personal coding preferences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like in previous years, this survey helps us to improve the language and compiler further and shape the future roadmap of Solidity. Therefore, we want to hear your feedback on Solidity and learn about your coding preferences.
```

The survey consists of several chapters:

- Demographics
- Your Developer Profile
- Your Solidity User Profile
- Solidity Development Experience
- Language Design & Upcoming Features
- Solidity Developer Community

Completing the survey will roughly require 10 minutes of your time.

None of the questions are mandatory, but keep in mind that filling in as many as possible helps us!

This year, a little "token" of appreciation awaits you at the end of the survey.

Last but not least, we moved away from Google forms and are trying an open-source alternative, namely CryptPad, in this iteration. Besides the fact that we prefer opting for open-source, encrypted, self-hostable software over proprietary software, selecting CryptPad specifically was a conscious choice since it allows you to submit your responses fully anonymous (client-side encryption).

## Spread the Word! 📯

This marks the third time we are conducting a structured developer survey and we are hoping to reach even more developers than last year.

**Please help us reach as many Solidity developers as possible by sharing the survey in your networks!**

> The results of the survey will be shared on this blog as well as on the [Solidity Twitter](https://twitter.com/solidity_lang) and [Mastodon](https://fosstodon.org/@solidity) accounts in Q1 of next year.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The results of the survey will be shared on this blog as well as on the [Solidity Twitter](https://twitter.com/solidity_lang) and [Mastodon](https://fosstodon.org/@solidity) accounts in Q1 of 2023.
```
